# SAVE-YOUR-POCKET-BY-FILING-TAXES-ON-TIME-
Filing taxes is something that no one likes to do especially, if you owe a lot of money in the form of taxes. This can lead to procrastinating the whole process of filing taxes. But this is not at all advisable, as this can lead to more problems and confusion. Firstly, it is essential to understand filing taxes and paying them are two different things and the procedures are different for each of them. This article will throw some light on why it is essential to file your taxes before the due date. 1. Avoid the penalty prices: Keep in mind that there are heavy penalties you will have to pay if you are late in filing taxes. This grows over the years if you are irregular in submitting your taxes.  2. Avoid the last-minute rush: Planning and organizing all your records including receipts, tax slips, notice of assessment etc. beforehand will help in carrying out the process of tax filing smoothly. This will ensure that you have succeeded in including everything required and nothing has been overlooked.  3. Keep scammers away: Tax identity theft is a big problem. Tax refund theft generally starts by accessing someone’s personal information, then filing a fake tax return under the person’s name to pocket the refund. Keep criminals’ grubby hands off from your refund by filing your tax return as soon as you are ready with your forms and other paperwork.  4. Consult a professional before due date to avoid miscalculations: If you are someone whose life revolves around accounts, money and transactions, it is wise to consult an expert in the taxes department to help you sort out your documents and the whole process. It might help in saving money and in avoiding miscalculations.  5. Avoid tax extension: Filing your tax return early may help eliminate the need to file an extension. Some people who wait until the last minute to file their returns need time to look for additional deductions or gather receipts. It will be even worse, if you file an extension but don’t pay what you owe, the department will charge you interest and penalties on the outstanding tax debt until it is paid fully. Preparing your tax return early in the year helps you avoid this situation.  Conclusion The above reasons state why it is wise to file your taxes on time. If you could not file taxes on time due to lack of prior knowledge and slight ignorance towards your taxes and accounts, keep in mind to plan for the next year after doing a thorough research on the whole process of filing and paying taxes or seeking an expert’s help. Note the changes are made each year: Government can revise its tax policies and terms which one should keep in mind and follow while filing taxes. This should be thoroughly investigated before filing your taxes or the probability of making mistakes will be high.  Contact Us: info@bostonfagroup.com India: +91 20 6523 6881 USA: +1 617-886-5181
